/*
 * Net ID- kdewnani
 * Assignment- Project 3
 * LAB TR 11:05-12:20
 * Collaborated with Shivali Singh (ssingh53)
 */

Program Explained:

This project launches fireworks. It contains 2 classes: Fireworks and Fireworks2. The program 
has a control panel whereby the user inputs the parameters for the launch of the firework. The 
parameters for the launch for our program are the launch angle, the launch speed, the fuse time 
(time before the firework explodes), the color of the trajectory, the shape of the firework when it 
explodes and the type of fireworks. The program also contains a separate Canvas where the 
firework is painted depending on the parameters entered by the user.

GUI: 

The Fireworks2 class contains the GUI layout. It extends JFrame and implements both 
ActionListener and ChangeListener. It has a constructor that contains JSliders, JLabels, 
JComboBoxes, JButtons and JSliders. Next, we have the main method that allows the program to 
be run and made visible to the user. It sets the frame of the control panel and this is resizable. 
Next, is the actionPerformed method where any action performed to the JButton or the 
JComboBox results in a different output. Similarly, with the stateChanged method, a change in 
the value of the sliders would result in a different output and a different value of the speed, angle 
and fuse time would be stored. Next is the Frame class which as the name suggests creates the 
frame, but also creates the Canvas using an object from the Canvas class. The Canvas class 
contains the paintComponent method in order to paint the fireworks depending on the inputs. An 
if…else condition is used in order for the program to be able to print different types of fireworks. 
Every other type except for the “Single” type is in the extra credit of the program. 

Methods: 

The Fireworks class contains the methods for accurately painting the correct shapes 
and trajectories. This class extends Fireworks2. The two methods Projectile and Endpoint use the 
formula given in the question in order to calculate the trajectory of the projectile depending on 
fuse time, speed and angle and the point at which the projectile stops. These two methods are 
called by the paintComponent method in the Fireworks2 class and therefore the trajectory of the 
projectile is painted and the Endpoint is known to the program. In this program, there are 7 
shapes that the fireworks can be. They are as follows: Lines, Circles, Squares, Diamonds, 
Sparkler, Star (Extra-Credit) and Flower (Extra-Credit). Each of these shapes have a different 
method in the Fireworks class. In order to create randomness, the random class was imported and 
incorporated in some of these methods. It should also be noted that each shape of firework has an 
array that changes the colors, therefore making the firework more visually appealing and 
colorful.

Extra-Credit Explained: 

This part of the extra-credit comes under the first part of the extra credit. Firing 2 projectiles 
towards each other and if they come within a certain range, they explode at that point and extra 
colored lines are painted. This part of the extra-credit comes under the type of firework called 
“Colliding”. If the type of launch is “Colliding”, it calls the methods DoubleProjectile, 
DoubleEndpoint and Collision from the Fireworks class. The DoubleProjectile method creates a 
replica of the single projectile that starts at the bottom right of the canvas. Therefore, there are 2 
projectiles, one from the left and one from the right. The DoubleEndpoint method simply finds 
the end point of one projectile launched. The DoubleEndpoint2 method finds the end point of the 
other firework launched (form the bottom right). It also has a condition that if the end point 
comes within a certain range, then the final point would be the point at which the two trajectories 
have come in range. Lastly, the Collision method draws colorful lines that is drawn only when 
the two projectiles come within range of each other.

This part of the extra-credit comes under the other ideas part of the extra credit. A new type of 
fireworks whereby three projectiles are initially launched and only when they meet up with each 
other do they combine into one projectile and explode. There are three initial launches and they 
all meet up at one common point where they converge into one and launch out until their 
explosion point. This part of the extra-credit comes under the type of firework called “Multiple 
Convergence”. If the type of launch is “Multiple Convergence”, the Multipleprojectiles, 
Endpoint3 and Endpoint4 methods would be called. The Multipleprojectiles method creates 4 
trajectories, 3 of which are the 3 initial projectiles and the fourth is the final projectile. Endpoint3 
calculates the end point of the final projectile and sets pointx and pointy to that point on order to 
draw the shape at that point. Endpoint4 calculates the prevpointx and prevpointy values which in 
this case is the point at which the 3 initial launches meet. 

This part of the extra credit comes under the third part of the extra-credit. This part creates child 
projectiles from the main projectile launched. The projectile breaks up into three child projectiles 
all of which travel a certain distance until they explode. This part of the extra-credit comes under 
the type of firework called “Multiple Dispersion”. If the type of launch is “Multiple Dispersion”, 
the Multipleprojectiles2, Endpoint4, Endpoint5, Endpoint6 and Endpoint7 methods would be 
called. The Multipleprojectiles2 method creates 4 trajectories, 3 of which are the child projectiles 
an the fourth is the initial projectile. Endpoint 4 calculates the prevpointx and prevpointy values 
which in this case is the point at which the 3 child projectiles disperse. Endpoint5, Endpoint6 and 
Endpoint7 methods calculate the end points for each of the child projectiles. 

This part of the extra credit again comes under the other ideas. Two extra shapes were created. 
The star and the flower shape. For the flower shape, using the polar curves knowledge, and 800 
small ovals, the outline of the shape was drawn. For the star shape, two for loops were used 
along with the drawLine method, so that the star could be drawn. 
